#### [Home](https://joelmwatson.github.io) >> [Familiar NPM Packages](https://joelmwatson.github.io/npm-packages)

---

# Familiar NPM Packages

## Authentication & Validation

### [JSON Web Token](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken)

Allows you to create and handle json web tokens for authenticating users.

### [Validator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/validator)

A library of string validators and sanitizers.

---

## CSS

### [AutoPrefixer](https://www.npmjs.com/package/autoprefixer)

AutoPrefixer is a post-css plugin to parse CSS and add vendor prefixes to CSS
rules using values from Can I Use.

### [Node SASS](https://github.com/sass/node-sass)

Node-sass is a library that provides binding for Node.js to LibSass allowing you
to natively compile .scss files to css at incredible speed and automatically via
a connect middleware.

### [PostCSS Cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/postcss-cli)

PostCSS Cli is a command line tool that allows you to write CSS pre-processors
or post-processors.

---

## Databases

### [MongoDB](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongodb)

The official package for working with MongoDB in Node.

### [Mongoose](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongoose)

Mongoose is an Object Document Mapper for working with MongoDB.

### [Pg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg)

Pg is a pure JavaScript PostgreSQL client for Node.

### [Sequelize](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sequelize)

Sequelize is an Object Relational Mapper for Postgres, MySQL, MariaDB, SQLite
and Microsoft SQL Server.

---

## Developer Tools

### [Dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv)

Dotenv is a zero-dependency module that loads environment variables from a .env
file into process.env.

### [Eslint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint)

ESLint is a tool for identifying and reporting on patterns found in ECMAScript/
JavaScript code.

### [Nodemon](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon)

Nodemon watches and automatically restarts the node application when file changes
in the directory are detected.

### [Concat](https://www.npmjs.com/package/concat)

Concatenate multiple files. (use combine css or js into one file)

### [NPM Run All](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-run-all)

A CLI tool to run multiple npm-scripts in parallel or sequential.

---

## Documentation

### [Express Swagger Generator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express-swagger-generator)

Used to automatically generate swagger style documentation for your local RESTful
web services

### [JSDoc](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsdoc)

An API documentation generator for JavaScript.

---

## Encryption & Encoding

### [Base64 JS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/base64-js)

Base64-js does basic base64 encoding/decoding in pure JS.

### [Bcrypt/Bcryptjs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcrypt)

Bcrypt is a c++ library to help you hash passwords (faster). Bcryptjs is optimized
in JavaScript with zero dependencies.

---

## Express

### [Express](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express)

Express is a minimal and flexible Node web application framework providing many
features for to simplify the server side web and mobile application developement.

### [Express Session](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express-session)

Express session is middleware to enable you to create sessions on your express
server.

---

## HTTP

### [Axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios)

Axios is an easy to use HTTP client for the browser and Node.

### [Morgan](https://www.npmjs.com/package/morgan)

HTTP request logger middleware for node.js

### [Request](https://www.npmjs.com/package/request)

Request is another really simple to use HTTP client. As of Feb 11th 2020, request
is fully deprecated. (Though still gets 19+ million weekly downloads)

---

## Miscellaneous

### [Bad Words](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bad-words)

Bad-words is a simple package that filters out badwords.

### [CORS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cors)

Cors provides a Connect/Express middleware that can be used to enable CORS with
various options.

### [Lodash](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lodash)

A modern JavaScript utility library delivering modularity, performance & extras
imported in node modules.

### [Moment](https://www.npmjs.com/package/moment)

A lightweight JavaScript date library for parsing, validating, manipulating, and
formatting dates.

### [Multer](https://www.npmjs.com/package/multer)

Multer is a node middleware for handling multipart/form-data, which is primarily
used for uploading files. It is written on top of busboy for maximum efficiency.

### [Sharp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sharp)

Sharp is a package used to convert large images in common formats to smaller,
web-friendly JPEG, PNG and WebP images of varying dimensions.

---

## Prototyping/Temporary

### [Faker](https://www.npmjs.com/package/faker)

Faker is a simple dummy data generator for use both in the browser and with Node.

### [JSON Server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/json-server)

Get a full fake REST API without writing any code.

---

## React & Redux

### [React](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react)

React is a JavaScript library for creating front-end UI. The react package only
contains the functionality to define React components and is typically used with
a React renderer like react-dom or react-native.

### Renderers: [React Dom](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-dom) & [React Native](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native)

This package serves as the entry point to the DOM and server renderers for React.
React Native brings React's declarative UI framework to iOS and Android.

### [Redux](https://www.npmjs.com/package/redux) & [React Redux](https://www.npmjs.com/package/redux-redux)

Redux is a predictable state container for JavaScript apps and react-redux is the
official React bindings for Redux.

### Forms: [Redux Form](https://www.npmjs.com/package/redux-form) & [React Final Form](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-final-form)

Use Redux Form if you need really tight coupling of your form data with Redux,
specifically if you need to subscribe to/modify it from parts of your application
on another route. Otherwise React Final Form is recommended.

### [Redux Thunk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/redux-thunk)

Redux Thunk middleware allows you to write action creators that return a function
instead of an action. The thunk can be used to delay the dispatch of an action,
or to dispatch only if a certain condition is met.

---

## TCP/IP & Sockets

### [Socket.io](https://www.npmjs.com/package/socket.io)

Socket.io is an amazingly useful package that enables real-time bidirectional
event-based communication over TCP/IP using sockets. It also allows for better
control over event handling and the ability to add an HTTP layer to hold
open your client connections.

---

## Templating languages

### [EJS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ejs)

Embeded JavaScript Templating.

### [Handlebars](https://www.npmjs.com/package/handlebars)

Handlebars is an extension to the Mustache templating language.

---

## Terminal/Comand Line

### [Chalk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chalk)

Chalk is a highly performant and easy to use terminal styling package. It allows
you to customize the styling of your terminal messages.

### [Yargs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/yargs)

Yargs simplifies building command line tools by nicely parsing the incoming
arguments and generating an elegant user interface.

---

## Testing

### [Debug](https://www.npmjs.com/package/debug)

A tiny JavaScript debugging utility modelled after Node's debugging technique.
Works in Node.js and web browsers.

### [Jest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest)

Jest is a super easy to use javascript testing framework that works with zero
configurations on almost all Javascript projects.

### [MongoDB Memory Server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongodb-memory-server)

MongoDB Memory Server downloads mongod binary to the cache and spins up a new
database instance in memory for testing.

### [Superagent](https://www.npmjs.com/package/superagent)

Small progressive client-side HTTP request library, and Node.js module with the
same API, supporting many high-level HTTP client features.

### [Supertest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/supertest)

Supertest provides a high-level abstraction for testing HTTP, while still
allowing you to drop down to the lower-level API provided by superagent.
